feat(api): add lua C bindings for xdiff (#14536)
neovim/neovim: runtime/doc/lua.txt

1. Given that
   - 'runtimepath' contains `/foo/bar,/xxx;yyy/baz,/abc`;

>    - initial (defined at compile-time or derived from 

Reviewer: Can you remove the whitespace changes from the doc files?

Author: I've done that in a separate commit. Is that ok or does it need its own PR? Or is that whitespace intentionally there?

Reviewer: Yeah, avoid unrelated formatting changes -- makes it harder to review (and may be clobbered by autogenerated docs anyway).

Author: Got it.

                Return: ~
                    Filename

==============================================================================
Lua module: xdiff                                                  *lua-xdiff*

xdl_diff({a}, {b}, {opts})                                    *vim.xdl_diff()*
                Run diff on strings {a} and {b}.

                Parameters: ~
                    {a}      First string to compare
                    {b}      Second string to compare
                    {opts}   Optional parameters:

>                              • `hunk_func`: Lua callback invoked for each hunk

Reviewer 2: implementing iteration as callbacks in a loop is not considered efficient in luajit. It would be good with a `hunk_list` option which does the `hunk_func = function(sa, ca, sb, cb)
          exp[#exp+1] = {sa, ca, sb, cb}
        end` thing everyone is gonna do anyway (but without the overhead of re-entering the interpreter each item)

Author: Great idea. Done

                Return: ~
                    Filename

==============================================================================

> Lua module: diff                                                    *lua-diff*

Reviewer 3: not a blocker for this PR, but FYI this may be overwritten by the docs generator.

Reviewer: can be checked by running the vimdoc generator locally

xdl_diff({a}, {b}, {opts})                                    *vim.xdl_diff()*
                Run diff on strings {a} and {b}.

                Examples: >
                vim.xdl_diff('a\n', 'b\nc\n')
                -->
                @@ -1 +1,2 @@
                -a
                +b
                +c

                vim.xdl_diff('a\n', 'b\nc\n', {hunk_lines = true})
                -->
                {
                    {1, 1, 1, 2}
                }
<
                Parameters: ~
                    {a}      First string to compare
                    {b}      Second string to compare
                    {opts}   Optional parameters:
                             • `hunk_func` (callback):
                               Invoked for each hunk in the diff. Return a
                               negative number to cancel the callback for any
                               remaining hunks.
                               Args:

>                                • start_a

Reviewer 2: these could be more informative (start line in input a, 1-based, and so on).

                               • `count_a` (integer): Hunk size in {a}.
                               • `start_b` (integer): Start line of hunk in {b}, 1-based.
                               • `count_b` (integer): Hunk size in {b}.

>                              • `hunk_lines` (boolean):
>                                Return an array of the hunk locations. Cannot
>                                be used with `on_hunk`.

Reviewer 3: Future idea: would it make sense to optionally return a structured result, as a map instead of a unified diff string?

Then to leave the door open for that, we probably want a single parameter (string instead of bool) than controls the result form. Something like

    ```suggestion
                             • `result_type` (string): Controls the form of the returned diff. Cannot be used with `on_hunk`.
                               • "string": (default) unified diff string 
                               • "lines": array of the hunk locations
                               • "map": (not implemented) structured diff in the form { ... }
```

Reviewer 2: maybe "unified" instead of "strings", and not mention "map", as it is no reason to assume that a future structured format must be a map?

Author: Hmm, for the unified option, do we want to split the strings to be consistent with nvim_buf_get_lines?

Also what about `indices` instead of `lines`?

Reviewer 2: let's not split the strings. it is not certain that you would put them directly in a buffer, or something.

Author: Sure, I'll take the less work. Just thought split strings are much easier to work with and can be more easily iterated over.

Reviewer 2: In generally lua has no problem dealing with multiline strings (unlike vimL, where a string cannot represent buffer contents). if the user has a usecase, they can split the string themselves (and not necessarily on just `\n`, just as well per hunk or something).

                +c

                vim.diff('a\n', 'b\nc\n', {hunk_lines = true})
                -->
                {
                    {1, 1, 1, 2}
                }
<
                Parameters: ~
                    {a}      First string to compare
                    {b}      Second string to compare
                    {opts}   Optional parameters:
                             • `on_hunk` (callback):
                               Invoked for each hunk in the diff. Return a
                               negative number to cancel the callback for any
                               remaining hunks.
                               Args:
                               • `start_a` (integer): Start line of hunk in {a}.
                               • `count_a` (integer): Hunk size in {a}.
                               • `start_b` (integer): Start line of hunk in {b}.
                               • `count_b` (integer): Hunk size in {b}.
                             • `result_type` (string): Form of the returned diff:
                               • "unified": (default) String in unified format.
                               • "indices": Array of hunk locations.

>                                Note this option is ignored if `on_hunk` is

Reviewer 3: should probably be an error rather than silently ignored?

Author: I changed it from an error because now we have `result_type` as an enum with an implicit default value of `unified` and I don't think we should error on this value whether it is implicit or explicit. And if we don't error for that then we shouldn't error for any other enum value.

When the option was a boolean/switch, the error was more justified as it is reasonable to expect the presence of other flags to be incompatible with each other.

                Return: ~
                    Filename

==============================================================================
Lua module: xdiff                                                  *lua-xdiff*

> xdl_diff({a}, {b}, {opts})                                    *vim.xdl_diff()*

Reviewer 3: Why not call this simply `vim.diff()` ? 

Also  "xdiff" is an implementation detail. Maybe worth mentioning once, but doesn't need to be in the help tags.
 Seems like the interface is generic enough, it is not inherently bound to a particular implementation.

Author: The original intention was to add a minimally-opinionated, maximally-transparent interface into xdiff.

> Also "xdiff" is an implementation detail.

It is and it isn't. Xdiff is the de facto standard diff library and has several implementations with pretty much identical API's, so I wanted this to be as close to that as possible. I'm ok if we want to do our own thing with this and just treat xdiff as pure implementation detail. Despite the interface being a close mapping to xdiff's, you're right in that it is quite generic.

Reviewer: As this is Lua API and not (versioned) Neovim API, we have a bit more leeway to change the interface later (if, e.g., we want to add alternative diff methods).

In any case, I'd prefer `vim.xdiff` over `vim.xdl_diff` (possibly even over `vim.diff`, although I much prefer that over the latter).

Author: Renamed to vim.diff
